Separate out primitives (#4640)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/get-started-with-backend-primitives.mdx

---
title: Get started with the backend primitives
description: How to use the Qiskit Estimator and Sampler backend primitives.

---

# Get started with the backend primitives

Unlike provider-specific primitives, backend primitives are generic implementations that can be used with an arbitrary

> `backend` object, as long as it implements the [`Backend`](/docs/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.Backend) interface.  Some providers implement primitives natively.  See the [Qiskit Ecosystem page](https://qiskit.github.io/ecosystem#provider) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`backend` object, as long as it implements the [`BackendV2`](/docs/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2) interface.  Some providers implement primitives natively.  See the [Qiskit Ecosystem page](https://qiskit.github.io/ecosystem#provider) for details.
```

Backend primitives require `BackendV2`

> `backend` object, as long as it implements the [`Backend`](/docs/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.Backend) interface.  Some providers implement primitives natively.  See the [Qiskit Ecosystem page](https://qiskit.github.io/ecosystem#provider) for details.

Reviewer: There is no anchor for `#provider` in the ecosystem page. Should it be https://www.ibm.com/quantum/ecosystem?tag=provider ?

> `backend` object, as long as it implements the [`BackendV2`](/docs/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2) interface.  Some providers implement primitives natively.  See the [Qiskit Ecosystem page](https://qiskit.github.io/ecosystem?tag=provider) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`backend` object, as long as it implements the [`BackendV2`](/docs/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2) interface.  Some providers implement primitives natively.  See the [Qiskit Ecosystem page](https://www.ibm.com/quantum/ecosystem?tag=provider) for details.
```

Apparently while `https://qiskit.github.io/ecosystem` redirects to `https://www.ibm.com/quantum/ecosystem`, the `?tag=provider` doesn't get carried over 🤷‍♀️
